JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
President-elect Trump talks jobs
with the
nation's biggest tech industry
leaders, as
he announces his choice for
secretary of energy.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Wednesday,
we sit down with white
separatist Richard
Spencer to talk about how he's
energized white
identity politics during this
election.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And technology
vs. tradition,
the battle over building an
ambitious telescope
on a sacred Hawaiian mountain.
ANDREA GHEZ, Astronomer, UCLA:
There's certainly
an element of native rights
issues, which
is far bigger than astronomy.
So, astronomy, I think, right
now, is certainly
a lightning post for these
bigger issues.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Short-term
interest rates are
moving up, for the first time in
a year.
The Federal Reserve Board's
decision today
affects credit cards, home
equity loans and
adjustable-rate mortgages.
Fed policy-makers announced they
have increased
the benchmark rate by a
quarter-point.
Several big banks followed suit,
raising their
prime lending rates to 3.75
percent.
At a news conference, Fed Chair
Janet Yellen
said the Central Bank now
expects to raise
rates three more times next
year, instead
of two.
JANET YELLEN, Federal Reserve
Chair: Our decision
to raise rates should certainly
be understood
as a reflection of the
confidence we have
in the progress the economy has
made and our
judgment that that progress will
continue,
and the economy has proven to be
remarkably
resilient.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will take a
closer look
at the Fed's decision and its
potential effects
later in the program.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Silicon Valley
comes to
Manhattan.
Donald Trump received the
biggest names in
the U.S. tech world today, and
praised their
innovation.
It came after most of the
digital leaders
invited had backed Hillary
Clinton in the
campaign.
John Yang has our report.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: This is
a truly amazing group of people.
JOHN YANG: Today,
president-elect Trump reached
out to executives from tech
giants like Amazon,
Google and Facebook.
DONALD TRUMP: We're going to be
there for
you.
And you will call my people, you
will call
me.
It doesn't make any difference.
We have no formal chain of
command around
here.
JOHN YANG: During the campaign,
he had a different
message, scolding the industry
for sending
jobs overseas.
DONALD TRUMP: We're going to get
Apple to
start building their damn
computers and things
in this country, instead of in
other countries.
JOHN YANG: Earlier, Mr. Trump
officially said
he wanted Rick Perry to be
energy secretary.
He was the longest-serving
governor of Texas,
a leading oil and gas producer.
He twice ran for president.
During his 2012 bid, Perry
called for eliminating
the Energy Department, but
famously couldn't
name it during a debate.
RICK PERRY (R), Former Texas
Governor: It's
three agencies of government
that, when I
get there, that are gone,
commerce, Education,
and the -- what's the third one
there?
Let's see.
QUESTION: You can't name the
third one?
RICK PERRY: I can't.
The third one, I can't.
Oops.
JOHN YANG: Last night, at a
rally in Wisconsin,
the president-elect defended his
choice of
ExxonMobil chairman Rex
Tillerson to be secretary
of state.
Critics say Tillerson's too
close to Russia.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: A great
diplomat.
A strong man.
A tough man.
A man who's already earned an
avalanche of
endorsements and growing praise
from our nation's
top leaders.
Rex will be a fierce advocate
for America's
interests around the world, and
has the insights
and talents necessary to help
reverse years
of foreign policy blunders and
disasters.
JOHN YANG: Of the fourteen
Cabinet-level picks
Mr. Trump has announced since
the election,
10 of them are white men.
So far, the president-elect has
selected three
women of color for top
positions, South Carolina
Governor Nikki Haley for U.N.
ambassador,
former Labor Secretary Elaine
Chao to be transportation
secretary, and Seema Verma to
oversee Medicare
and Medicaid.
The lone African-American choice
is housing
secretary-designee Dr. Ben
Carson.
Yet to be announced by Mr.
Trump, his choices
for the secretaries of
agriculture, interior
and veterans affairs.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This evening,
the president-elect
announced he's chosen Ronna
McDaniel to chair
the Republican National
Committee.
She's the niece of Mitt Romney,
and currently
chairs the Michigan Republican
Party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: The
United Nations Human Rights
Commission warned
that South Sudan is on the brink
of -- quote
-- "all-out ethnic civil war."
The African nation has suffered
years of brutal
fighting, with tens of thousands
killed and
more than a million people
displaced.
Today, in Geneva, U.N. officials
reported
widespread atrocities and rapes,
with some
victims as young as 2 years old.
YASMIN SOOKA, Chair, United
Nations Commission
on Human Rights: A U.N. survey
found that
70 percent of women in the camp
had been raped
since the conflict erupted, the
vast majority
of them not by unarmed, unknown
men, but by
police or soldiers.
And a staggering 78 percent of
them had been
forced to watch someone else
being sexually
violated.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The commission
chief urged
immediate deployment of another
4,000 U.N.
peacekeepers to South Sudan.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In Syria,
there's word that
a truce is back on in Aleppo,
after it failed
to take effect this morning.
Instead, there was a long day of
recriminations
and fierce new attacks.
From early morning on, gunfire
and shelling
blasted Eastern Aleppo.
The cease-fire brokered
yesterday by Russia
and Turkey was supposed to allow
rebels and
civilians safe passage to
Northern Syria.
The first buses even arrived to
ferry them
away, but they left empty.
U.N. officials, rebel groups and
activists
blamed Syria's ally Iran for
imposing new
conditions, including a
simultaneous evacuation
of two villages being shelled by
rebels.
WOMAN: Criminal Assad regime and
the Iranians
have broke the cease-fire, and
they are back
to attack the civilians and
continue the genocide.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In Ankara,
Turkish President
Recep Tayyip Erdogan faulted
Syrian forces
for breaking the cease-fire.
RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN, Turkish
President (through
translator): We were hoping to
evacuate civilians
and opposition forces from East
Aleppo, but,
unfortunately, once again,
rockets were fired.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Syrian state
TV blamed rebel
shelling.
And President Bashar al-Assad
rejected any
criticism of his military in a
Russian TV
interview.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD, President of
Syria (through
translator): It doesn't matter
what they ask.
The translation of their
statement is for
Russia: Please, stop the
advancement of the
Syrian army against the
terrorists.
That is the meaning of their
statement.
Forget about the rest.
You went too far in defeating
the terrorists.
That shouldn't happen.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Late today,
the U.N. Human
Rights Office warned the Syrian
government
and its allies have almost
certainly committed
war crimes with the renewed
assault on Aleppo.
Meanwhile, Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei
Lavrov predicted thousands will
be able to
leave Eastern Aleppo once it
falls.
SERGEI LAVROV, Russian Foreign
Minister (through
translator): I expect that the
rebels will
cease resistance in the next two
to three
days.
And the minority that declines
to do so, it
will be their own choice.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And in
Washington, the White
House charged that Russia could
have prevented
all this carnage by enforcing a
truce last
month.
JOSH EARNEST, White House Press
Secretary:
The Russia couldn't hold up
their end of the
bargain.
I know they have got all kinds
of explanations
for why that may be the case.
Most of them are rooted in the
fact that they're
either unable or unwilling to
control their
client government.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tonight came
new statements
from rebels and the pro-Assad
alliance that
the latest cease-fire is back
on.
They say evacuations will begin
tomorrow at
dawn.
This evening, Turkey announced
it will join
Russia and Iran in a summit on
Syria later
this month.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, it was
anything but a warm Wednesday
across parts
of the Plains and the Midwest.
Arctic air triggered windchill
advisories
for 10 states, from North Dakota
to Ohio.
Commuters in Chicago bundled up
to brave the
colder-than-usual conditions, as
windchills
in that city plunged to minus-15
degrees.
The cold wave is moving
eastward, followed
by snow.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There's word
of a huge new
data breach at Yahoo.
The company now says hackers
stole information
from more than one billion user
accounts back
in August of 2013.
It's separate from a 2014 breach
at Yahoo
involving 500 million accounts.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the rally on
Wall Street
stalled today, as the Federal
Reserve forecast
more rate hikes than expected
next year.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 118
points to close at 19792.
The Nasdaq fell 27, and the S&P
500 slipped
18.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And the
Library of Congress
is out with this year's 25
additions to the
National Film Registry.
They include the 1980s hits "The
Breakfast
Club," "The Princess Bride," and
"Who Framed
Roger Rabbit."
Also added, Disney's "The Lion
King" and "Thelma
and Louise."
The movies are chosen for
special preservation
based on their cultural,
historic or artistic
importance.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the GOP chief
strategist on Trump's latest
Cabinet picks;
reconstructing the Russian hacks
leading up
to the election; a look at the
man behind
the rise of neo-Nazi ideology;
and much more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President-elect
Trump has now
named nearly all of his picks to
serve in
his Cabinet, but some are not
without their
controversies.
Here to discuss some of those
choices, and
more, is Sean Spicer.
He's the chief strategist and
communications
director for the Republican
National Committee.
He's also an adviser to Mr.
Trump.
Sean Spicer, welcome back to the
program.
Let me start by...
SEAN SPICER, Communications
Director, Republican
National Committee: Thanks,
Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you.
Let me start by asking about the
announcement
today about Governor Rick Perry,
former governor
of Texas, as the secretary of
energy.
This is someone who we know has
had close
ties to the oil industry, is not
considered
an expert in nuclear energy,
which is a major
focus of that statement, and who
during a
primary debate forgot the name
of the Energy
Department when he was asked
about federal
departments he said he had
wanted to eliminate.
Why Rick Perry?
SEAN SPICER: Well, you look at
his record
in Texas.
He's the largest --
longest-serving governor
in Texas, created almost 2.2
million jobs,
largely from finding resources
in Texas that
he could harness to make sure
that people
got employed.
You look at the number of jobs,
and not just
that, but the number of the
wages that went
up.
I think when Donald Trump looks
at the energy
sector, he sees that as a place
to really
create wealth for this country
and for individuals,
to put Americans back to work
with good-paying
jobs that have benefits.
So, he looks to Governor Perry
as someone
with a proven track record of
getting that
done and as someone who was
elected multiple
times as Texas governor, showed
a tremendous
amount of support from the
people of Texas.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Does the
president-elect still
believe, as he said on the
campaign trail,
that the science behind climate
change is
still not settled, in other
words, something
that most climate scientists say
is absolutely
correct?
SEAN SPICER: Well, I think you
just said it
yourself, most.
And I think that's where his
head is at.
He understands that there's
elements of man,
mankind that affect climate, but
the exact
impact of it and what has to be
done to change
that is something there is some
dispute about
within the community, not just
science, but
within the industry.
I think, look, the bottom line
is this.
He believes in clean air, clean
water.
He understands the need to
preserve areas
of this country to make sure
that we maintain
the splendor and the
environment, but he wants
to do so in a way that ensures
that we don't
hamper economic growth and job
creation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me ask you
about another
one of president-elect's
choices, and that's
Rex Tillerson to be secretary of
state.
We have heard, yes, a number of
Republican
senators are on board, but
several say they
have concerns.
Marco Rubio says his concerns
are serious.
John McCain said -- quote -- he
has concerns
about what kind of business we
do "with a
butcher, a murderer, and a
thug," which is
how he describes Vladimir Putin.
How do you respond to this?
SEAN SPICER: Well, with all due
respect, Judy,
that's two.
That's not several.
And I think that we're going to
continue to
work with them, and not just
Republicans,
but Democrats.
Look, I have spent some time
talking to Rex
Tillerson.
He's an amazing human being.
He's an American success story,
not just in
his business life.
He's a rags-to-riches success
story.
He stated working at 8, lived in
a one-bedroom
house until the time he went to
college and
grew to become the CEO of one of
the world's
largest companies.
He truly is the embodiment of
the American
dream.
On a personal level, he is just
an amazing
person.
And I think when you look at his
track record
it in business, a world-class
businessman
that has relationships with over
200 countries
spanning four decades, he's
tough by all accounts.
He gets the job done and largely
is unbelievably
successful.
That's what we need, to bring
his business
experience and acumen and
understanding of
the geopolitical world that we
are in today
to fight for America and put
America's interests
first.
There's no question, I think, as
more and
more people get to know Rex
Tillerson, they're
going to be really proud of the
choice that
Donald Trump made as our next
secretary of
state.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, another
Russia story
that certainly we're all
following this week,
that is the report out of the
intelligence
community, in particular by the
CIA, that
the Russian -- that Russian
officials were
behind the attempt, the
cyber-attack against
the Democratic National
Committee and other
prominent Democrats, and that in
fact it appears
it was done in order to tilt the
election
in favor of Mr. Trump.
How do you -- we now have
several senators,
including the Senate majority
leader, Mitch
McConnell, saying there needs to
be a serious
and thorough investigation.
Is the president-elect prepared
to cooperate
with this investigation wherever
it leads?
SEAN SPICER: Well, it's not a
question of
cooperate.
If they want to have a hearing
-- or excuse
me -- hearing or investigation,
they should.
But I think that like, with all
-- I would
like to sort of de-pack that for
a second.
You know, there's evidence that
suggests that
Russian entities were behind
probing different
sites and databases.
There is zero evidence that they
had any impact
on the outcome of this election.
Donald Trump won with 306
electoral votes,
2,300 counties and 62 million
Americans voted
for him.
So there's a big difference
between Russia
or other entities trying to hack
a system
or probe a system, as is the
case in a lot
of -- but there was zero
evidence that they
had any impact on the outcome.
In fact, prior to the election,
it was the
U.S. government, the Department
of Homeland
Security in particular, that was
reassuring
Americans that because our
voting system is
so disparate, and we use
different voting
machines in so many different
precincts, that
there is no way that anyone
could have an
impact on the election.
So, I really find it somewhat
reprehensible
that so many entities on the
left, and, frankly,
some in the media are now trying
to undermine
the legitimacy of this election.
The fact is, prior to the
election, it was
made very clear, by all of them,
that our
electoral system and our voting
systems were
ironclad and that they couldn't
be hack or
interrupted, particularly
because of how we
vote as a country in terms of
various precincts
and counties throughout the
country that use
different systems that are never
actually
attached to it.
So, to now turn back and attempt
to delegitimize
this election is frankly sad and
pathetic.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, with all
due respect
-- and I do want to ask you
another question
in addition -- it is not just
the media that
is reporting what the CIA...
SEAN SPICER: No, it's the left.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, the media
and, again,
Republican senators, including
Mitch McConnell,
who are saying there needs to be
an investigation.
But, Sean Spicer, I want to ask
you one another
thing.
A man you know very well, Reince
Priebus,
who has been the chairman of the
Republican
Party, now named to be the chief
of staff
under president-elect Trump,
said in an interview
today that he thinks there are
going to be
fewer press briefings.
In other words...
(CROSSTALK)
SEAN SPICER: No, that's not what
he said.
Actually, no, no, no.
With all due respect, Judy, not
to keep using
the phrase over and over again,
but he didn't
say that.
He was asked by a radio talk
show host if
all of the traditions and
business as usual
were going to be kept, and he
threw out a
bunch of suggestions and said,
we need to
rethink everything.
And he threw out a bunch of
different ideas
and said, you know, we should
rethink some
of these.
Do we need to do everything
every day?
Does it need to be on camera,
some of the
stuff that, frankly, your own
colleagues and
different academic institutions
have questioned
as well.
So, please, don't turn that on
us.
We only cited several things
that would be
under consideration.
And, frankly, a lot of them, the
press has
even been very supportive of.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Then final
question.
When will Mr. Trump hold a full
news conference,
so that reporters who cover him
can ask questions?
SEAN SPICER: Well, he's made
himself available
multiple times to the media.
He sat down with The New York
Times, 30 or
40 reporters, for an
hour-and-a-half the other
day.
He's been down in front of the
pool cameras
several times this week.
But I think you should expect
full press conference
probably right after the
holidays.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sean Spicer,
adviser to president-elect
Trump, thank you very much.
SEAN SPICER: Thank you very
much, Judy.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The recent
reports that
the U.S. intelligence community
believes Russia
sought to help Donald Trump win
the election
through the hacking of
Democratic political
organizations has rocked the
country.
As we just heard,
president-elect Trump dismisses
the idea that Russia was
responsible or that
it wanted him to win the White
House.
Today's New York Times featured
an extensive
timeline of the hacking, and
what it may have
wrought.
I'm joined now by one of the
reporters who
wrote the story, Eric Lipton,
and by Dmitri
Alperovitch.
He is the co-founder of
CrowdStrike, the
cyber-intelligence
firm that investigated the
hacking of the
DNC.
Eric Lipton, I want to start
with you.
Your reporting shows a really
large gap between
when the FBI reached out to the
DNC and when
President Obama or the U.S.
government attributed
that these hacks were by the
Russians.
What caused this?
ERIC LIPTON, The New York Times:
That's right.
I mean, it was September of 2015
that the
FBI first reached out to the DNC
to alert
an I.T. contractor who worked
there that there
appeared to be someone operating
within their
system, and that operator was
perhaps linked
to Russian hackers.
And it wasn't until October of
2016, so more
than a year later, that the
administration
and the intelligence agencies
formally issued
a statement attributing that
cyber-attack
to the Russian actors.
And so that's quite a long time.
And it was -- many, many months
passed between
when the FBI first essentially
called the
DNC and the time in which the
DNC in fact
confirmed that the hackers were
present.
That didn't take place until
late April.
So there was quite a delay.
And that delay occurred at a
time when the
presidential election was
playing out.
And then the hacked e-mails then
became public
and had an influence on that
process.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Dmitri
Alperovitch, within
days of your company getting the
contract
with the DNC, you figured out
who was behind
this.
How did you do it?
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH, Co-Founder
and CEO, CrowdStrike:
Well, the DNC Called us in, in
May of 2016,
in May of this year.
They wanted us to check out
these anomalous
activities that they were
starting to see
on the network.
And we deployed our technology
called Falcon
on every machine within the
company, within
the corporation.
And basically it allowed to us
essentially
see everything that was
happening on every
server and laptop and desktop at
the Democratic
National Committee.
And what we found is that there
were two actors
independently operating within
that network.
And the tradecraft that they
were using, the
tools that they were using and
other digital
forensics, sort of digital
fingerprints, if
you will, indicators that we
picked up, matched
to the indicators that we had
previously associated
with these two groups.
They are called Fancy Bear and
Cozy Bear,
and that we affiliated with
Russian intelligence
agencies.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Eric, as
Dmitri's software
pointed out, this wasn't the
first time that
Russians had done this.
It just seems to be an
escalation.
ERIC LIPTON: That's right.
Certainly, during the Obama and
McCain race,
there was hacking that occurred
there.
And there has been quite a
number of federal
agencies that have been attacked
and infiltrated
by some of the same players that
went into
the DNC.
So, and, in fact, the director
of national
intelligence gave a warning in
2015, saying
there was already evidence that
there was
-- folks were targeting the
presidential candidates
for this year's elections.
So there was lot of reasons to
be on the guard
for a possible cyber-attack.
And so you have to wonder why --
that said,
the Russians, if in fact it was
the Russians
-- and everything suggests that
it was -- are
quite, you know, quite skilled
at infiltrating
systems.
But you do sort of wonder why
there wasn't
a higher state of alert at the
DNC to detect
and stop an incursion.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Dmitri, is the
standard
operating procedure for the FBI
and how they
warn companies?
It seemed, in Eric's report, at
the beginning,
they were dealing with a
low-level I.T. guy
who was a subcontractor, and
that person didn't
even believe that it was
actually an FBI call.
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH: Well, I
think you have
to appreciate that the FBI does
literally
hundreds of notifications like
this on a weekly
basis.
There's a lot of intrusions that
are happening
in our country from a variety of
different
nation-state adversaries that
the FBI picks
up in the course of their
investigations.
So most of the time, they just
don't have
the resources to do more than
try to call
and notify a corporation.
I think in this case, however,
given the high-profile
target, given that this was an
election season,
I think more should have been
done.
Given the proximity of the DNC
to the FBI
headquarters, just about a mile
away, someone
could have gone to the DNC and
notified them
in person.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You know,
Eric, one of the
stories -- you had a separate
piece about
this, but one of the things that
got buried
in this while we were all
focused on the DNC
hack and perhaps the Podesta
e-mails were
how some of this information
actually made
it down into very key House
races, the hack
into the DCCC, the congressional
campaign
committee.
ERIC LIPTON: That's right.
So, at the same time as the
hackers got into
the DNC, they share a building
and actually
have a connection between the
computer system
of the DNC and the Democratic
Congressional
Campaign Committee.
And so they were able to take
tens of thousands
of pages of documents from the
DCCC, which
oversees the House races by
Democrats.
They took these documents and
then they distributed
them to bloggers and reporters
in individual
states at key moments, like
right before specific
debates, before primaries, to
try to damage
the standing of the Democratic
candidates.
And all the documents that went
out were related
to, you know, opposition
research other collections
of documents from the Democrats.
Those document dumps, you know,
had real consequences
on some Democrats.
So, while the Trump folks
suggest that this
had no impact on the election, I
think, if
you look at some of the House
races, in particular
in Florida, there was a
particular House race
where the party wanted one woman
who was running,
Annette Taddeo, to be their
candidate, and
she lost after the document dump
embarrassed
her, and it became a subject of
debates and
news coverage.
And that was -- that was
consequential.
And it didn't get much attention
from the
media, because we were so
focused on other
things.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Dmitri, we
just have a few
seconds.
Are there enough measures in
place in preventing
this from happening again?
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH: I think
every organization
needs to assume that they are
compromised.
We see so much of these
intrusions from nation-states
and criminal groups that it's a
daily occurrence
for organizations, companies,
and nonprofits
and government agencies alike.
So everyone needs to be focused
on doing compromise
assessments to make sure that
their networks
are truly clean.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Dmitri Alperovitch
from CrowdStrike, Eric Lipton
from The New
York Times, thank you both.
ERIC LIPTON: Thank you.
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: White nationalist
groups say
that Donald Trump's electoral
victory was
also a win for their brand of
white identity
politics.
A man named Richard Spencer has
helped to
shape this racist ideology.
He has gained notoriety in
recent weeks for
statements that most find
abhorrent, but that
have increased his following.
The "NewsHour"'s P.J. Tobia has
the story.
P.J. TOBIA: Richard Spencer
wants to redefine
what it means to be American.
He's credited with coining the
phrase alt-right,
adding an intellectual veneer to
a racist
movement based on a mix of white
nationalism,
neo-Nazi beliefs and hard-edged
populism.
RICHARD SPENCER, National Policy
Institute:
This country does belong to
white people,
culturally, politically,
socially, everything.
We define what America is.
P.J. TOBIA: Last week, he spoke
at Texas A&M
University.
RICHARD SPENCER: Look at the
history of multiracial
nations.
It's a history of conflict.
It's a history of distrust.
P.J. TOBIA: Tempers quickly
flared inside
the auditorium, while, outside,
protesters
denounced his message of white
identity politics
and confronted his supporters.
The demonstrators tried to storm
the meeting
room, but were pushed back by
police.
During the presidential
campaign, Spencer
and his followers were a small,
but vocal
pillar of support for Donald
Trump, mostly
active online, targeting those
critical of
the Republican nominee with
ugly, sometimes
anti-Semitic attacks.
Media profiles of Spencer
followed, focusing
on his privileged upbringing,
education at
elite institutions and sartorial
choices.
Then came this event in November
celebrating
Donald Trump's election victory
in downtown
Washington, D.C.
RICHARD SPENCER: America was,
until this past
generation, a white country.
P.J. TOBIA: It was a forum for
the National
Policy Institute, a kind of
white nationalist
think tank Spencer runs.
His keynote address ended with
Nazi salutes.
RICHARD SPENCER: Hail Trump.
Hail our people.
Hail victory.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
P.J. TOBIA: The Holocaust
Museum, Anti-Defamation
League and others denounced the
speech as
an anti-Semitic attack.
Spencer says his racist
provocations are purposeful.
RICHARD SPENCER: The alt-right
has come a
long way.
Donald Trump as a -- you know,
as a first
step toward identity politics
has a come a
long way.
It was a time to be a little
outlandish, and
so that's why I did that
applause line, which
was a bit naughty.
P.J. TOBIA: A bit naughty?
I mean, we're talking about --
people are
"sieg heiling."
We're talking about an ideology
that hundreds
of thousands of Americans died
to extinguish.
And it's a bit of fun?
RICHARD SPENCER: Right.
Whenever anyone says that I care
about my
people, I care about my
identity, I want to
expand and deepen my identity,
the first thing
you always hear -- and it's
become a joke
-- is, ah, Adolf Hitler, ah, the
Ku Klux Klan,
ah, the Southern Confederacy.
It's these boogeymen that are
thrown at any
legitimate and genuine movement
for identity.
And I think at some level people
want to throw
them back in the face of their
attackers.
P.J. TOBIA: When a journalist
writes something
that your guys don't like, you
know, it's
a picture of her superimposed in
an oven.
I mean, you could see the
concern there.
RICHARD SPENCER: It's pixels and
words.
P.J. TOBIA: And a swastika is
just an image.
But it's not just an image, man.
I think you know that.
I'm positive that you know that.
I think you're just trolling.
(LAUGHTER)
RICHARD SPENCER: I'm not a very
good troll.
No, look, I -- there is a line
to be crossed,
and to a point where I won't
defend anyone,
and that is any kind of
imminent, real, physical
threat of violence.
P.J. TOBIA: Despite Spencer's
privileged upbringing
and lifestyle, his are a
politics of victimhood.
RICHARD SPENCER: If you were
born in 1978,
like I was, or 1988 or to '98,
you have experienced
being a minority.
You have experienced, let's say,
undergraduate
life, where you have gone
through some white
guilt indoctrination.
You have experienced trying to
get a job at
a major corporation, where you
know that their
hiring is geared almost totally
towards not
hiring you.
P.J. TOBIA: Those who know white
nationalism
best say that Spencer's message,
newly packaged
for millennials in sharp suits
and clever
memes, are in fact a very old
product.
FRANK MEEINK, Author,
"Autobiography of a
Recovering Skinhead": At the
heart and at
the core of the alt-right, no
matter what
they say, it's all about race.
P.J. TOBIA: Frank Meeink is
former neo-Nazi
from South Philly.
As a youth, he hosted a cable
access show
called "The Reich."
By age 18, he was doing hard
time for kidnapping
and torture, but left the
movement shortly
after getting out of prison.
FRANK MEEINK: Every bit of it is
about race.
It all comes from that.
And if you look deeper, it comes
from fear,
fear that the white race is
losing this country,
fear that -- the Mexicans coming
in.
It's all about fear.
They're losing something.
P.J. TOBIA: He says this sense
of loss has
always been a part of the
radical right.
FRANK MEEINK: I always hear the
same arguments:
Well, they have BET.
Why can't we have white
entertainment television?
Well, all of television is white
entertainment
television.
So it's like this -- they're
getting something
that I'm not, and everything's
being taken
away from me.
P.J. TOBIA: Meeink now coaches
youth hockey
to steer kids in the right
direction.
He says, if Spencer does have
influence in
a Trump administration, he'd use
it to roll
back affirmative action and
diversity programs.
And Meeink doesn't believe that
Spencer's
Nazi arm salutes are merely
ironic.
FRANK MEEINK: It's not a joke
when there's
people whose family members were
killed in
the Holocaust because of people
doing that
arm salute, because of people
mindlessly just
following their hatred and their
bigotry and
knowing that it doesn't piss off
liberals.
What it does is, it scares human
beings who
care about humanity.
P.J. TOBIA: And despite all his
high-minded
talk of theory and history,
sometimes, when
challenged, Richard Spencer
resorts to basic
insults.
RICHARD SPENCER: She's dancing.
Perhaps she will lose some
weight.
P.J. TOBIA: Spencer's dream is
an all-white
nation.
In the near term, he wants to
set up an office
for his National Policy
Institute, currently
run from his home.
The institute was established in
2005 with
funds from William Regnery II
and others.
They hold press conferences,
publish studies,
a journal and white nationalist
blog posts.
The Southern Poverty Law Center
calls the
institute and others like it
academic racist
organizations.
RICHARD SPENCER: Now we have a
place at the
table.
So, that is a major achievement.
A lot of that has to do with
Trump, obviously.
And what I want to do is to
start to influence
culture more directly, start to
influence
policy more directly, start to
influence society
more directly.
That's going to involve
professionalization.
That is building real
institutions here in
the real world.
P.J. TOBIA: The Trump campaign
didn't respond
to a request for comment on this
story.
Nonetheless, Spencer thinks
America is ready
for his message.
RICHARD SPENCER: The alt-right
has gone from
a movement that wasn't connected
to the mainstream
to a movement that's now really
connected
to the mainstream.
P.J. TOBIA: Richard Spencer has
energized
a tiny group of passionate
followers.
MAN: It's about reawakening
people of America,
and get white people to stand up
for their
roots and to quit being put down
by things
like Black Lives Matter.
P.J. TOBIA: With the election of
Donald Trump,
racist groups of all stripes are
hoping their
message will be more widely
accepted, but
the protests that greeted
Spencer and his
followers at Texas A&M are proof
that mainstream
may be a bridge too far for
white nationalism.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm P.J.
Tobia in
College Station, Texas.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Today's
interest rate hike
by the Fed marks just the second
time it has
raised rates since the 2008
financial crisis
and the major recession that
followed.
So, when Fed chairwoman Janet
Yellen announces
a move like that, even one
that's widely expected,
it is still a big deal.
Jeffrey Brown continues.
JEFFREY BROWN: Over the last
year, the Fed
had signaled several times that
a rate hike
was imminent, only to back away
as economic
growth stayed sluggish.
Today, though, the move by the
Federal Reserve
Board of Governors was
unanimous, restarting
a move upward from historically
low interest
rates.
Why now, and what is the Fed
seeing?
We turn once again to Diane
Swonk, an economist
with her own consulting firm in
Chicago.
Diane, welcome back.
Start there.
Why now?
What is the Fed seeing?
DIANE SWONK, Founder, DS
Economics: Well,
we are seeing some inflation.
And the economy -- the Fed is
sort of looking
at things getting stronger, and
it's an acknowledgment
that the U.S. economy is
stronger.
It's actually raised rates.
I think they could have done it
in September.
There was this postponement to
December.
It's more than time for the Fed
to raise rates.
And, in fact, I think Janet
Yellen also signaled
very clearly that this is a
turning point
for the Fed.
They not only -- not are we just
seeing a
forecast of rate hikes next
year.
I think we're going to see much
more than
one.
Now, it only takes two to get
more than one.
I think we will get the three
that the Fed
is expecting.
JEFFREY BROWN: They're seeing an
economy that
is growing, perhaps even too
fast, enough
that they want to raise rates.
That's after an election in
which many Americans
saw an economy that wasn't
growing fast enough
for them.
DIANE SWONK: It actually isn't
an acknowledgment
that the economy is growing too
fast.
The monetary policy is still
very, very easy.
To think of this, you kind of
think of it
as the Fed is not taking the
punch away from
the party.
They're just not spiking it
anymore.
They're worried about some
people getting
a little tipsy on the side, some
real estate
bubbles they're very concerned
about in the
commercial real estate market.
And although they didn't state
it explicitly,
the run-up in the stock market
that we have
seen since the election has a
lot of attributes
of a bubble.
And there is certainly going to
be some concern
about that within the circle for
the Fed.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, and, of
course, the big
question is to what extent does
the election
of Donald Trump changes the
game, right, and
changes the economic outlook,
and, therefore,
the outlook for interest rates,
with tax hikes
or stimulus.
What did Janet Yellen say about
that today?
DIANE SWONK: Well, clearly,
there are some
within the Fed -- there are
participants at
the meeting that actually did
put that into
their forecasts.
And most of them didn't.
And I think she was very
cautious to say the
cloud of uncertainty regarding
policy, because
the Fed is in the situation that
they have
got to react to actual policy,
not promises
of policy changes.
And the spectrum of what could
happen are
both bad and good, depending on
whether they're
protectionist policies that
might raise inflation
without boosting growth or
whether they're
pro-stimulus, pro-growth
policies that will
raise inflation by actually
raising growth.
The spectrum is very vague.
And we don't have any policies
yet to react
to.
So, I think that's very
important.
The other issue that's very
clear, Chair Yellen
made a real attempt to assert
the Fed's independence
without provoking the new
president-elect,
because she was really sort of
walking on
eggshells in an effort to, this
is what is
expected, this is what we're
doing, but didn't
want to provoke president-elect
Trump, because
he did criticize her very much
on the campaign
trail.
The people they're talking about
replacing
-- putting into two seats in the
Federal Reserve
that are currently are going to
be very hostile
to Chair Yellen.
And she asserted that, listen,
she's not going
anywhere.
Her term goes until next year.
And she even intimated that she
might stick
around longer and fulfill her
term.
We have only had one Fed chair
ever that,
once they were done with their
term as Fed
chair, stayed on as governor.
JEFFREY BROWN: He was, indeed,
very critical
of her.
And, as you say, she just has
one year.
So, you're thinking there is the
possibility
here of some kind of coming
dispute, open
dispute?
DIANE SWONK: I think there's
going to be a
lot of open dispute.
The two Fed chairs that are
going to be filled
are going to be filled by people
who don't
like what this Federal Reserve
has done, and
they're going to be critical of
it, and they're
going to be, in fact, confirmed
by being critical.
Now, there may be buyer's
remorse later on
if they raise rates a lot, and
these are people
who end up taking over the Fed,
because they're
going to replace not only two
Fed seats.
They're also going to have the
attempt to
replace the chair and replace
the vice chair
within about a year-and-a-half.
So, President-elect Trump is
going to have
a lot of impact on the Fed at
the same time
that Congress is looking to have
oversight
to be able to make the Fed sort
of acquiesce
to political cycles, instead of
economic cycles.
JEFFREY BROWN: Diane Swonk,
thank you very
much.
DIANE SWONK: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now to our
continuing series
of conversations with outgoing
members of
the Obama administration.
Secretary of Agriculture Tom
Vilsack is the
last original member of the
Obama Cabinet.
He is also the former governor
of Iowa.
We began the conversation by
looking ahead
to his yet-to-be-named successor
in the Trump
administration.
TOM VILSACK, U.S. Agriculture
Secretary: I
would say that, from an
agricultural perspective,
I have a little bit of concern,
because some
of the folks I don't know are
particularly
supportive of the renewable fuel
industry
and the renewable fuel standard,
which is
a big part of certainly
Midwestern agriculture.
And I'm hopeful that, when we
see his ultimate
selection for ag secretary, that
we will see
someone who is a strong advocate
for renewable
fuels, and what that means to
Midwestern producers.
And, for that matter, now, all
over the country,
we're seeing more and more of
the biofuels
being produced from a variety of
sources.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, renewable
fuels.
Any other signals that you have
seen him give
as it affects agriculture
policy, food stamp
policy, a big part of what the
department
does?
TOM VILSACK: Well, on a positive
side, his
designee to be ambassador to
China, former
-- or current Governor Terry
Branstad from
Iowa, who I think is actually a
good selection
because of his relationship with
President
Xi in China and his longstanding
relationship
with the president, and the fact
that Governor
Branstad is a tireless advocate
for agriculture.
So, there's sort of a good news
opportunity
there, I think, especially with
our number
one trading partner.
Still yet to be determined about
the impact
on some of the poverty programs
like SNAP.
This is a very effective
poverty-reducing
program.
We're seeing reduced rolls in
SNAP.
So, it will be interesting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This is food
stamps.
TOM VILSACK: Food stamps, yes.
It will be interesting to see
what, if anything,
is proposed.
I think a lot of people don't
understand the
makeup of the SNAP population,
of the food
stamp population, 80 percent
senior citizens,
people with disabilities,
children, and those
who are actually in the work
force working.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it's
interesting you should
say that, because some
congressional Republicans
are talking about overhauling
it.
We have yet to hear, I think,
from Mr. Trump
himself on that.
TOM VILSACK: Yes, I think that
there's a misunderstanding.
The folks who are not -- who are
able-bodied,
who are adults, who don't have
dependents,
there's a desire to make sure
that they get
to work and that they aren't
basically gaming
the system.
But the reality is, they have a
responsibility
to either be involved in work or
education,
or they're limited in terms of
their benefits.
So, I think it's going to be a
little bit
more difficult than they might
assume to overhaul
that program.
It's a working program.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The election,
Donald Trump
did much better with and among
rural vote
voters than did the Democratic
Party nominee,
Hillary Clinton.
Why do you think that is?
What was it about -- that he
said and his
appeal that wasn't there on her
part?
TOM VILSACK: Well, I think,
actually, it goes
far beyond one election cycle.
I think the Democrats have -- we
really have
failed to be in rural America,
in the sense
of having our leaders spending
time talking
to folks in rural America.
The president has been there,
but other than
the president and vice
president, we have
had not a whole lot of
conversation in rural
America.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Including by
Hillary Clinton?
TOM VILSACK: Well, Hillary
Clinton was there
during the Iowa caucuses, but I
think the
nature of a campaign makes it
more difficult
once you become the candidate.
But there's a messaging
opportunity here throughout,
not just in the election season,
but before
the election, the opportunity to
underscore
what government is doing in a
positive way
in partnership with rural folks.
I think it's a messaging issue.
It's being there physically,
talking to folks,
listening to people, respecting
and admiring
what they do, and then making
sure that they
understand precisely what the
partnership
is.
I will give you an example.
Very few people know that my
department is
responsible for 1.2 million home
loans since
I have been secretary.
That's 1.2 million families that
are living
in homes in rural America that
would never
have homeownership, but for the
United States
Department of Agriculture's
programs.
We have to do more of educating
people about
the partnership that does exist
between rural
America and their government.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you're saying
it's principally
a messaging issue, that the
policies are right?
Because when you talk to voters
in some of
these areas, they're saying they
just think
Washington, as it is today, just
doesn't even
care who they are.
TOM VILSACK: Five -- over 5,000
water projects
have been financed by my
department.
We have invested billions of
dollars in economic
opportunity.
We have supported over 100,000
businesses,
supporting nearly half-a-million
jobs in rural
America.
The unemployment rate has been
cut nearly
in half.
The poverty rate has come down
faster than
it has in 25 years.
The food insecurity rate among
children is
its lowest in history.
Yes, I think it is a messaging
issue, Judy.
I think we have not done a good
job of explaining
to people in rural America what
is actually
happening, number one.
And, number two, we're not
expressing appreciation
and acknowledging the
contribution that rural
America makes.
Where does your food come from?
Where does the water come from?
Where does the energy feedstock
come from?
It all comes from rural areas.
Where does your military come
from?
Nearly 35 to 40 percent of the
military is
from 15 percent of America's
population living
in rural America.
It makes a tremendous
contribution to this
country.
It just isn't recognized.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, how do
Democrats turn that
around?
TOM VILSACK: Well, I think,
first and foremost,
showing up, making sure that we
focus not
just on elections, not just on
presidential
elections, but we begin the
process of rebuilding
the infrastructure of the party
at the grassroots.
We begin going out to all those
rural counties
and begin having a conversation
with rural
voters and making sure that we
hear their
concerns, hear their complaints,
and also
educate them about what we are
doing, making
sure that we focus on state
legislative races,
not just congressional, Senate,
governor,
and presidential races.
I think it's incredibly
important that we
have a greater investment in
infrastructure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Two final
questions.
As you prepare to leave the
Department of
Agriculture, what do you think
you have done
that's made the most difference?
TOM VILSACK: Well, the rural
economy is significantly
better.
Children in this country will be
healthier
in the long run because of the
changes we
have made in school lunch and
school snack
programs.
Our natural resources,
particularly our working
lands, are more resilient.
And more money is being invested
in soil conservation
and water preservation.
Our forests will be in better
shape if Congress
does what it needs to do to fix
the fire-suppression
budget.
But I think we're leaving the
department,
we're leaving rural America,
we're leaving
the country, and particularly
the youngsters
of this country in better shape
than when
we found them in 2009.
That seems to me to be the
threshold question:
Are things better or worse than
they were
in 2009?
I think people have to remember
where we were
in 2009.
We were losing 800,000 jobs a
month.
We had an unemployment rate in
double digits.
We had poverty rates soaring.
We had kids who were food
insecure.
Today, we have a lot less
unemployment, a
lot less poverty, and a lot
fewer kids who
are food insecure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And in just a few
words, what
is the part of President Obama's
legacy that
you think is most likely it to
endure, given
that we're about to turn the
executive branch
over to someone who has very
different political
views?
TOM VILSACK: Well, I think
President Obama
is going to be treated very,
very well by
history in terms of his ability
to save the
economy.
And that's certainly true in
rural areas.
Again, the unemployment rate is
substantially
reduced, the poverty rate is
down, and in
large part because of the
investments that
were made during the Recovery
Act and thereafter,
historic investments.
Record amounts of investment has
been made
in the infrastructure in rural
areas.
There's still work to be done,
no question.
But we're in much better shape
than we were
before, number one.
And, number two, I think,
certainly, he has
created an opportunity for
America to understand
that diversity is a blessing,
diversity is
a strength.
It isn't necessarily something
to be concerned
about.
And I think, at the end of the
day, we're
going to learn that this country
operates
best when it celebrates and
surrounds itself
and appreciates diversity, and
doesn't shun
it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Secretary of
Agriculture Tom
Vilsack, thank you for talking
with us in
your final month or two of being
in that position.
Thank you.
TOM VILSACK: You bet.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Finally
tonight, a most
unusual battle between
scientists and native
Hawaiians over the construction
of a massive
observatory.
And it is all about a plan to
build the largest
telescope on Earth on a shield
volcano.
Astronomers say it can offer
unique sights
to view the cosmos, but it would
be created
on what is also considered
sacred ground.
Science correspondent Miles
O'Brien has our
report for our weekly look at
the Leading
Edge of science and technology.
MILES O'BRIEN: For astronomers,
it may be
the ultimate focal point this
side of outer
space.
The 14,000-foot summit of Mauna
Kea on the
island of Hawaii is home to 13
observatories
that have rewritten the
textbooks.
Astronomer Andrea Ghez is a
frequent visitor,
here to learn more about the
black hole at
the center of our galaxy.
ANDREA GHEZ, Astronomer, UCLA: I
feel like
a kid in a candy shop.
We have got lots to do, lots --
a lot of interesting
problems that we're working on
that's been
enabled with advanced
technology.
And further advances are just
going to make
that all the better.
MILES O'BRIEN: Ghez uses the
most powerful
observatory here, the Keck,
which has two
10-meter-wide mirrors.
But plans to shed more light on
her star quest
are stuck in a black hole of
resentment and
anger.
It turns out what's precious to
the scientists
is sacred to the native Hawaiian
culture.
PUA CASE, Activist: There's no
word for how
I feel about that mountain in
English.
There's no word that would be
deep enough
to say how I feel about that
mountain.
MILES O'BRIEN: Pua Case is one
of the most
vocal opponents of the $1.4
billion 30-meter
telescope, the TMT.
It is the next big observatory
on the horizon,
and astronomers believe the
summit of Mauna
Kea is the ideal place to build
it.
PUA CASE: This mountain peaks
into the realm
of the Sky Father to Wakea.
It's where I go when I need to
say my prayers,
when I want to be heard, because
I know my
voice is closest to the heavens
when I am
there.
MILES O'BRIEN: Their protests
emerged at the
groundbreaking on October 7,
2014.
Opponents successfully argued
the approval
process was illegally
circumvented, and so
the Hawaiian Supreme Court
revoked the building
permit, forcing the project to
start the long
process over.
GARY SANDERS, Project Manager,
Thirty Meter
Telescope: So, there's going to
be 492 glass
mirrors this size.
MILES O'BRIEN: Gary Sanders is
project manager
of the TMT.
It is a multinational
partnership involving
science enterprises in the U.S.,
Canada, India,
Japan, and China.
GARY SANDERS: Scientists, we
love what we
do.
We adore it.
OK?
We just don't understand
sometimes that those
around us, while they might be
pleased with
it, even excited by it, may not
adore it the
way we do.
That's a blind spot.
MILES O'BRIEN: Observatories
started appearing
on the summit of Mauna Kea about
60 years
ago.
There was always opposition, but
it blossomed
in the late 1990s, when NASA
proposed four
smaller telescopes be placed
beside the big
Keck mirrors to enhance their
resolution.
But the idea was scuttled amid
local opposition.
TMT managers say they tried to
learn from
that experience.
GARY SANDERS: We tried as best
we could to
meet the concerns and actually
to become part
of the community, rather than
mere visitors
of the community.
So, when the opposition emerged,
the additional
opposition emerged as we began
the groundbreaking
and the construction, frankly,
we were surprised.
WOMAN: You let Mount Fuji stand.
Mount Fuji is sacred.
Our Mauna Kea is just as sacred
as Mount Fuji.
Please hear us.
MILES O'BRIEN: The TMT project
took shape
while native Hawaiians were
rediscovering
their cultural heritage.
Peter Apo is a singer,
songwriter and trustee
of the Office of Hawaiian
Affairs, a state
agency that aims to improve the
lives of Hawaiians.
PETER APO, Office of Hawaiian
Affairs: The
TMT issue is largely under the
umbrella of
what Hawaiians refer to as
nationhood.
That is a strong feeling that
the way Hawaii
became the 50th state of the
nation, beginning
with annexation, was illegal.
So, the TMT and other issues
like it really
spring from this unresolved and
unreconciled
question of self-determination.
ANDREA GHEZ: There's certainly
an element
of native rights issues, which
is far bigger
than astronomy.
So, astronomy, I think, right
now, is certainly
a lightning post for these
bigger issues.
MILES O'BRIEN: Andrea Ghez is
focused on one
of the big issues in astronomy
at the very
heart of the galaxy.
She and her team have proven the
existence
of a black hole there by
tracking how stars
orbit around it.
But, in science, the answers
often spark new
questions.
ANDREA GHEZ: Almost everything
we see there
is inconsistent with our models,
so it's making
us scratch our heads.
But I keep reminding myself that
we are only
seeing the brightest things, and
it would
be like trying to understand the
financial
market if you could only see the
biggest transactions.
MILES O'BRIEN: In astronomy, the
solution
is to build bigger and better
telescopes.
And a mirror 30 meters in
diameter would be
a hundred times more powerful
than Keck's,
but it would be one of the
largest moving
structures ever constructed.
The building will be 18-stories
tall.
PUA CASE: The construction, the
destruction,
and the desecration to a sacred
place, to
any mountain anywhere, you can
never change
that.
You can never go back.
We know how grateful we are to
be in this
circle on this Mauna today.
And you lead us, great mountain,
and you tell
us what to do.
And we align with you in the
heart.
I don't even pay that telescope
no mind, because
I know it won't be built.
They know it won't be built.
Ancestors will not allow it.
MILES O'BRIEN: So, while the TMT
project pursues
a new permit, it is also hedging
its bets,
choosing an alternate site in
the Canary Islands.
Astronomers say that would be a
huge loss
for Hawaii.
ANDREA GHEZ: It's a treasure to
have something
that's so valuable to our
knowledge that we
can achieve.
It can be best done here.
PETER APO: One of the challenges
that we have
is that, when you use the word
sacred, it
means no discussion.
So, they won't come to the table
to discuss
anything, because there will be
no compromise.
The TMT will not be built.
So that makes it a little bit
difficult to
talk about anything.
MILES O'BRIEN: If the TMT moves
on from Hawaii,
Mauna Kea will still remain a
powerful perch
to study the cosmos for decades,
but it could
be the beginning of the end of
an era of leading
edge scientific discovery here.
And it may be symbolic turning
point in an
uphill battle for a culture that
feels forgotten
and unappreciated.
Miles O'Brien, the "PBS
NewsHour," on Mauna
Kea.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online right
now: Making Sense columnist Phil
Moeller looks
at a proposed bill to reform
Social Security
and advocates for the need --
advocates, that
is, for the need to adequately
fund that agency.
Also, we look at a new musical
based on a
tragic chapter of World War II
in England.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And that's the
"NewsHour"
for tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.